In Climate Watch, the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration has
released its State of the Climate report
for August.
The data shows that this summer was more
than two degrees above normal, making it
one of the warmest ever on record.
The report also found the amount of
climate disasters that occurred in the
United States this summer was abnormal.
For more, I want to bring in CBS News
Meteorologist and Climate Specialist,
Jeff Berardelli.
Jeff, the report says this summer is tied
with a Dust Bowl summer of 1936.
How significant is that?
Very significant.
That was an extraordinarily hot summer
and it was man -made.
The reason why it was so hot was caused
by humans.
Farmers had gotten rid of all the native
grass because a lot of the farmers that
were moving into that area during that
time didn't have a lot of experience farming.
So they wiped out all the native grass
and just left dirt behind.
And that dirt would absorb a lot of the
sun's rays and really, really heat it up.
And also, it created tremendous dust
storms, which in many cases were deadly
dust storms.
So let's talk about what happened this
summer and we'll talk about 1936 as well.
So for June, July and August, it was the
hottest on record across the West and one
of the hottest on record in the Upper
Midwest and in the Northeast.
And it beat out the summer of 1936 by a
sliver, so it's the hottest summer on record.
You can see temperatures were about 5
degrees above normal across the West.
But
slightly below normal here near the Gulf Coast.
That's because it was very rainy and this
is what climate change does, right?
It makes the rich richer and the poor poorer.
And what I mean by that is, where places
that typically see a lot of rain, they
got more rain.
Places like Mississippi and Alabama was
the wettest on record for them.
And that wet air and all that rainfall
extended to the Great Lakes and
Northeast, where we already have a
surplus of rain typically.
But across the plains states and most
parts of the West, it was generally a
fairly dry summer.
The exception to that was an exceptional
monsoon in Arizona, where it rained a lot actually.
Areas of Mississippi and Alabama had 10
inches above their normal rain for the summer.
It caused a lot of flooding up and down
the eastern seaboard.
So, this was the Dust Bowl summer of 1936.
You notice that temperatures got above
110 degrees across such a large part of
the country in the plains states into the
Midwest as well.
In fact, this is an incredible,
incredible stat when you think about it.
25 % of all heat records in our record,
which goes back 100 -150 years, they were
broken in that one year.
That's how hot it was in 1936.
And you can see, we saw extreme heat 40
-50 days or so.
And again, the reason for that was also
man -made.
This time, it's a different type of man
-made climate change.
It's greenhouse gases which are trapping
the heat, which is caused by the burning
of fossil fuels.
But either way, it was a disaster.
That was a disaster year, and we've seen
a lot of disasters so far this year.